If you build anything that might get
serious in some point in the future, you
need tests. But no, no, no, not unit
testing or integration testing. That's
what you did at university and these
times are gone. What we need is end to
end testing because that's the only way
we can secure that our app is working
all the time. And what can I say? It
just got so much easier and better now.
We have to talk about a lot today. So,
let's get started. And in case you have
no idea what I'm talking about, there
you go. End to end testing. What does
that mean? What means end to end? Pretty
simply said, it's just user to product.
So, we're actually testing actual human
flows. And that's end to end testing.
So, not just like unit testing where
you're just testing one function or one
component. No, instead you're testing
the whole thing or the whole flow. Are
you ready for flashbump? I'm so sorry,
but this page has no dark mode. What is
the state-of-the-art? Which testing
packages are out there and which are
cool, which are not cool? We have
basically Cypress, Jest, Playright and
Vest. For just and V test, they are more
on the unit testing side. And when it
comes to Cypress and Playright, they are
better for end to-end testing. And what
we clearly see here is that Playroid is
winning the race. And it's also the
option that Next.js, the framework that
I will use in this video, recommends.
But I told you that things just got so
much better because there's a new player
here. But we will get to that in a
minute. So let's jump finally into code.
I use NextJS here. You don't need to use
Next.js as well. You can use React but
you can also use any other framework.
What I show here today is not framework
specific at all. I guess I think so. So
because playright is the option of
choice currently I just give you a quick
run how to set playright up. You just
start if you're using PMP with PNPM
create playright then you get prompted
with a few things. I already have set it
up so I haven't have to do it but if you
have done that you get a playright
config set it up. Looks a little bit
complex but it's basically not. It's
just setting up the test directory and
you can just set up some things but you
can also stay with the defaults. But
here you can also define which browsers
do you actually want to test on right?
You could test on Chrome browsers on
Firefox on uh Safari for example. In my
case yeah I just test on Chromium but
that is bad practice. You should test on
all your browsers and that's already all
if you have set it up your playright
config you can just start writing tests.
So you just create a file withspec.ts.
And this file might look extremely
complex on the first look, but it's
actually not really. It's basically just
like reading English. You will see that
because I just describe a test
multi-step form and then I say before
each test go back to the starting route
and then I just define the test and I
say, yo, I expect that the page has a
multi-step form to be visible and then I
check if the progress bar. So I have
these to be visible here. And I have
this expect function that I expect
something to happen. And that's
basically how tests work. I can do even
more things. I can for example click
things. So I say, "Hey page, click a
button that has the text next." But
yeah, the rest is pretty
self-explanatory. I can even fill things
or wait for some things to happen.
That's how tests work and that's how you
define all your playright tests in here.
And that is not much. I'm not testing
the whole foam here. I just test some
basic things like moving forwards and
moving backwards. So tests can get
pretty pretty complex. But one big
question that is standing in the room is
now when should tests run. I mean sure I
could run them locally here but then I
have to do it every time that I do
something. I have to run my tests. I
totally will forget about that. Right?
That's why you should make use of GitHub
actions if you use GitHub. But I think
GitLab has this too. And for enabling
that you need agitub folder and then a
workflows folder and then you define a
workflow in a YAML file in here. Yeah,
it again just looks complex. Again it's
just easy. We're just defining end to
end test. We say when should they run
for example on a pull request. I want
that on every pull request that these
end toend test run. And then I just say
what should happen. But this is all
default behavior here. And then I'm just
installing play right here. And then I'm
running a build. And here it is. PNPM
act playright test. This is actually
running my playright test completely
without me saying it has to do this.
It's just doing it every time for every
coworker in my company. That is really
really good. But what isn't good is the
fact that this just looks garbage. It's
complex. And the biggest problem is that
every time you change only one simple
detail. Let's say it's not called
multi-step form but multi-step test form
or I change the name from personal info
to just info for example or the ID of
last name is now surname just one simple
change and all your tests crash and
that's the pain that's the pain of end
to end testing you change one thing your
tests are not working so our
lightbringer who will save us here it's
AI AI packed into web browsers and
that's what browserbase offers us and
thankfully they also sponsored this
video but what I say here is totally my
opin opinion and I'm convinced that this
changes end to end testing 360°. So they
have a product called stage hand and
this is so great for end to end testing.
So we have two options now you might
already have seen it. We can use browser
base with playright. So we're just
having our normal test setup with
playright but as an environment we're
not just using local host or the local
build that it's happening on GitHub
actions. We actually define a domain
that is called by the AI browser where
the tests at the end of the day run.
While this already is cool and gives us
a lot of benefits because in the
dashboard we can see hey what has
actually happened and we even get a
video about what has happened. This is
not the perfect solution because the
problem still persists right because we
still have the problem that if we change
one thing things stop working. So that's
where stage hand comes into play because
with stage hand we're not using
playright anymore. We're using stage
hand. Of course, we also say that we go
to a specific domain here because it has
to run on the browser base AI browser.
But now it's getting cool because we
have something that is called act. So we
can act the AI browser to do something.
We can say just input first name and he
does that. And input first name is not a
specific string. I'm talking to the
browser. I could also say input the
first name or stuff like that. So I'm
just saying here what he should do. So,
if I change the ID of the input field of
the first name, that doesn't lead to the
fact that my test will crash. My test
will still work. It's just AI now moving
through my application. And that's
awesome. Like, I'm just saying, bro,
just move through my site and take maybe
some screenshots. Cool. That's it. We
can test that. I set it up some scripts
here for, for example, BB stage hand.
So, we call pmppm run test um BB stage
hand. BB stands for browser base. I
think you know that. And if I run that
now, he starts a machine on browser
base. We can actually see that if you go
to the overview here, you see running
since when if I refresh here, this
should be live. Wait. Yes. 16 seconds.
So, this is now running a test and we
have such a good observability. We can
just click that. Let's see. Is it
finished? No, it's still running. Can we
see it live what he's doing? I think we
can now. Now, he actually finished. But
there we go. Now we see how he is
filling in these values here. Isn't that
cool? That's just awesome. You see
exactly what's going on. So we see here
our test is finished. Um I just uh
console log test started and I just
console log the domain. You can console
log whatever you want in here. One minor
problem still exists. I have to write
those things on my own here. So I have
to come up with all the ideas what I
want the AI to act like and what it
should do. But browserbase has a
solution for that. Of course the
director. So director is also a product
by browser base. And here we can start
adding tasks. So I say like go on the
German Amazon and find the new AirPods
Pro 3 and he will do that. And not just
that, no, he will give me the stage hand
commands that he uses. And this is the
key because then I can just copy the
script, get it into my code, and I'm
done so fast for every flow of my
application. Right? So we see here a
page go to Amazon. And now he waits a
little bit so everything can load and
then he's typing in AirPods 3 Pro. So he
just says page.act type AirPods Pro 3
into the search box. So simple and the
AI is doing that. And there we go. There
we see our AirPods Pro. So now you can
just take this stage hand script and set
it up with GitHub actions and you have a
perfect flow. Thanks to Tom for watching
this video. Here you find more videos of
mine and have a great week. Bye-bye.